This is Jockel Podcast number 49 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willick.
It starts off quietly.
When you're young, you don't quite know where it comes from and at first you don't even know what it is.
But you know it's something.
You feel it, you feel it growing.
You're just a child, but you feel it.
Something, something inside of you.
And at some point that thing, it crosses over.
It goes from being something that you don't fully recognize something that you don't completely understand.
It goes from that to being you.
Those things become you.
It is you. It is your emotions.
It is sadness and happiness and passion and anger and joy and it is rage.
And those things, those emotions, they burn.
And they burn hot.
They're a fire that grows out of control.
They fuel your mind and your body and your soul.
And that marks the change.
Becoming a person.
Becoming an individual instead of a child.
You release the inferno.
And burn what you touch and unite those near you.
And in that fire, you burn.
You burn out of control and people around you.
The people, the other humans, the normal humans.
They do their best to extinguish that fire.
They tell you to relax.
They tell you to calm down.
They tell you to get a grip.
They tell you it isn't healthy.
And that's because they are scared.
They're scared of that fire in your soul.
And so they tell you that you are crazy.
And because the anger and the rage and the sadness are so brutal and so hard to suffer through,
you begin to listen to those people,
to those normal humans.
And so you begin to subdue the fire.
You start to get those emotions under control.
And at some point you realize this is better.
Better to control those emotions.
Better to starve those passions.
You begin to shut them down.
You are a child.
No more.
Angry youth.
No. Now you are an adult.
A responsible adult.
You control your emotions.
You don't let them control you.
And the anger and the rage and the sadness.
They begin to wither up.
They become listless.
Just memories.
But when the anger and the rage and the sadness fade,
so does the passion and the happiness and the joy.
And of course, because it happens slowly,
you are not going to be the eye-to-be.
You don't notice it.
It is not the MONTH OF LIGHTNING or a violent explosion
that kills them but a slow, slithering death.
Then, one day you wake up,
and you catch your glimpse of yourself in the mirror.
And as you look into your own faded lifeless eyes, you see something.
Something you recognize, something subtle and worn, but something still filled with a
subdued power.
And you remember what that felt like, what anger, enjoy and horror and happiness felt
like, and you wonder what happened to them.
And you realize that in order to control your passions, you destroyed them.
All of them.
But let me tell you, they are dead.
They cannot so easily be killed, they are there, and they are waiting to be released again.
And no, you don't have to let them get out of control, but you can certainly let them
out into the wild.
You can dance with them.
And of course, while you need to balance them and maintain the upper hand over your emotions,
you can still relish in their glory.
You have to let them out.
You have to expose the nerves, feel the pain, feel the frustration, the sadness, the shock,
the anger, and in those adverse moments, then you also get to feel the laughter.
The joy, the gratitude, the passion, because it is the passion, not in difference that
fuels greatness.
And it is conviction, not tranquility that drives execution.
And while we must not ever let our emotions dictate our decisions, we are not here to eradicate
our emotions.
Control them?
Yes, of course, you must maintain control of your emotions.
Keep them in check?
Yes, by all means, emotional restraint is a necessity, but destroy them?
No.
That is not what we do.
So let your guard down, expose your weaknesses, take some risks, open up your fragile
soul and those embers, those small-dering embers that you have tried to smother.
But that are ready to ignite again and become an inferno of energy and of power, feed those
embers.
Light that fire again, soak it with air and fuel and more fire.
And let it burn.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
There was just some thoughts I had as I was thinking about one of those dichotters in life.
And obviously I talk a lot about maintaining control of your emotions, but we can go too
far with that idea.
And I wanted to remind myself that if we take that I do too far, we're actually going to
re-gress backwards in a negative way.
Which brings us to straight-up Q&A today.
Questions from the interwebs?
Yeah.
Bring it.
Oh, you got some comment?
Just wait a minute asking me.
Twitter, right?
Or Twitter's really solid.
Facebook is also good.
Instagram don't.
Don't.
I'm on Instagram.
But it's harder for me to compile those questions when people hit me with those.
They don't stand out as much.
They're in a caption of a picture 27 comments down and it's just, yeah, not.
Not the best way.
Yeah.
Facebook Twitter.
Everyone's in all the people who will submit them through the store.
And possible way.
Yeah, it's good, but you kind of do bring the risk of there being store issues that are
pressing.
And then I'm like, okay, let me get back to this question whether be to forward it or whatever.
I say you run the risk of it.
Maybe getting shuffled to the bottom or something.
Yeah, I'm trying to think there might be a more efficient way to do it.
Yeah.
Maybe I should just be doing a one.
Maybe I should do for each podcast on Facebook.
Say, hey, if you have questions for the next podcast, ask them on this thread right
here.
That might be a way to do it.
What about an email questions?
That, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that
that might be a good idea.
Interesting.
All right.
If only I knew someone that knew how to set that up.
Yeah.
All right.
Speaking of questions from me in a web, what do you got?
First question.
Juckle.
What is the biggest turnaround on stance slash opinion you've ever made?
Now, this is, this is one of those questions that I sat there and thought about it for
while.
And then I realized that the answer was sitting right in front of my face literally.
Sitting right in front of my face.
And that is this.
Mm-hmm.
It's the podcast, the book, the social media, all of it.
Because I've talked about this before.
I was raised in this hill team to be the quiet professional.
And as a matter of fact, one of my, one of my favorite seals when I was a young guy at
team one, this guy was just a, just a total badass for all.
And learned, learned, I learned a ton from him.
And he was actually, you know, some people say, oh, that guy's good at everything.
This guy was actually awesome at everything, like everything that there was to do.
A shooting, a flighting, a climbing, a tactics.
Everything that he did, he was awesome at.
And he was super, super hardcore, just tough.
And in fact, one of the stories about him is that when he joined the Navy and he had to come
to boot camp, I guess in San Diego, he paddled a kayak from where he lived to get in
San Diego.
And he was 17 years old, by the way.
He was just a 17 year old kid joined the Navy when he was 17.
And then had no way of getting here.
So, co take a kayak, put it in the water, and paddle the San Diego on the road.
That seems to be the smart way to do things.
And so back in the day, he had a hat.
And he had this hat.
This before you'd see seal, memorabilia everywhere.
You just see it all over the place.
He had this hat with just a tried-in on it.
Nothing else, just a tried-in.
And then under the tried-in, it just said the words, the silent option.
And I always thought to myself, yes, that is it right there.
That's us, right?
The silent option.
So fanfare, no news, no parade, no fame, or fortune, or glory of any kind.
No, none of that.
The silent option.
That's it.
And pretty much everybody that I looked up to in the seal teams had that kind of attitude.
And there's something that is obviously so pure about that attitude.
So, selfless.
But none of what you did as a seal was ever for any kind of recognition, ever.
And that to me was sort of the code.
Now there were people that stepped out from that code.
And while it certainly wasn't encouraged, it wasn't really ridiculed either.
I mean, people did it.
People wrote books.
And it wasn't looked that down upon.
At the time, unless you were a bad team guy.
If you were a bad seal, or if you were a guy that had a bad reputation, you would be crushed
in the seal teams.
It amongst the team guys in the community.
Now civilians, they don't know the difference, right?
I mean, to civilians, how can they tell?
They just a seal is a seal as a seal.
So they're good with it.
But in the teams, if you had a bad reputation, your reputation would get even worse
if you broke the code.
So when I retired, I had zero intention of going public, right?
Of becommonism.
And then when I started working with civilian companies and late for them to come
to the national on front, and we realized pretty quickly that there was a big need for
people to learn what we had to teach.
And really quickly, the demand for us to write this down and be able to give it to people
grew and it was really obvious to us.
So when that started, when we started, when that started, we started wrote it down, and
then that started to transform this idea of what we had written down, started transforming
and to becoming a book, like a legitimate book.
I got really nervous and scared and kind of almost sick.
I was definitely very weary about it.
And I think I did some little self-sabotage along the way just a little bit here.
You know, I just, well, I don't know.
You know, it's probably not going to be, you know, I think I did some of that stuff.
I'd have to think about it.
In fact, I know I did some of it, because it's kind of an all or nothing proposition.
You're either do it or you don't do it, and I guess you could try and use like a pseudonym,
but then that doesn't really, that's not me.
I'm not going to even, I'm not going to make up a personality, and not be me, right?
So that wasn't really an option.
And furthermore, I knew that that doesn't really last either.
I mean, the pseudonyms eventually, people figure out who they are and so that's the way it
works.
And I think the thing that finally made me say, okay, I'm going to do this is that,
as I decided, like, okay, I'm going to do this.
I just kind of knew I wasn't going to be anything else other than what I was, right?
I'm not going to try and put on some persona or be something that I'm not.
I'm just going to be me.
And I've got, you know, that's what I'm going to do.
And so that's what I did.
You know, the me that is here is just me.
There's nothing special that's just who I am.
And that's all I did was basically expose what I am to, you know, people in the public.
Now, the thing is, now that I actually am out there a little bit, and people can kind of
see me in the world, right?
There's definitely some things that I don't like about it.
Or I should say, I don't like, there's some challenges, right?
There's some challenges there.
For instance, you're being watched all the time.
You're being followed and being, you're being judged.
And those things right there are coincidentally the exact same kind of challenges you
face when you're in a leadership position.
But I face when I was leadership position, oh, people are watching me.
Oh, people are judging me.
I'm used to that.
That's what it was like when I was in the sealed teams.
And just like when I was in the sealed teams, I always tried to stay true to what I believed
in and what I believed was right.
And not to say I never made mistakes.
I obviously did, but I always gave it my all to do the best job I could do and to take
care of my guys, my brothers and my friends.
That's what I always tried to do.
And really that's all I'm still trying to do.
Is just to give something back to pass on some of the things, some of the little things
that I've ordered along the way.
And really when I get the feedback from my sealed teammates from guys that are still active
duty and the sealed teams, from soldiers and Marines that are retired or guys that are still
on active duty or guys that transition to the civilian world, all those guys, guys from
the front lines.
That are all the front lines right now.
And then guys that are law enforcement and firefighters.
When all those bad whole crew, that whole group of people send me some kind of thanks,
it's awesome.
And in addition to them, I don't know if this is surprising or not, but I hear from
just every day normal people to civilians, right, businessmen, laborers, entrepreneurs,
builders, mechanics, plumbers, electricians, software engineers, doctors, men and women, girls
and boys, young and all, just every imaginable size, shape, color of person from every
walk of life.
And I hear from them.
And when I hear from them, and I see that they're getting something out of this, that makes
those little challenges of judgment and scrutiny.
It makes all those worthwhile to me.
Because once again, I feel like I'm part of something that's bigger than me, bigger than
myself, something more powerful than I could ever be by myself, something stronger than
I could ever be alone.
And for me to be doing what I can do to help that and to have that, to have trying to help
be both the task and the reward.
It's a reward to help people.
That to me has made it worthwhile.
Yeah, I could see that.
Will give the silent professional the quiet professional and the silent option.
Two different variations on the same theme.
Is that?
Because if that wasn't there, you would imagine you'd get a bunch of, hey, look at me,
I was such a badass in all these stories.
Because I think that what you and life have and even this podcast and stuff, there's
references to war, but it's not about, let me spend all the cool tales that the war that
I went through and stuff like that.
It's more about the actual principles of leadership and what you've affected.
And the general public would probably want to hear every last cool story on how you saved
this person or killed all these bags or whatever.
Everyone will want to hear that.
I'll do it.
But that's not what it's about.
That's not what you're going public with.
It's more about this valuable stuff that is tried tested in the harshest conditions that
work everywhere.
That's the valuable part.
I don't even know if that's even like seeking glory in any way.
Well, again, I've said this before, you can say that you're not trying to seek glory,
but then when you write out 300 page book about yourself, you know what I mean?
And then you have a podcast about yourself.
It's like it just is what it is.
There's no, that has a level of self-centeredness that you can't, I mean, you can't,
I can't deny it, right?
I can't deny it.
I actually know the podcast is it's a podcast and I talk on it for two hours, right?
That's me talking.
So there is a level of that that you can escape from.
And I talked about this before, but that book, the electric cool aid asset test, which
I don't, maybe I'll do, but it's about the hippies and the drug revolution.
Well, this one part of it, where this guy is listening, he's up and hate Ashbury in San Francisco.
And he goes on this tangent about how what they're saying is me, me, me, me, look at me.
And when I read that for the first time, I was like, oh, I never want to be that person,
that's saying that.
And that's that, but again, the dichotomy here is I have a podcast, I have a book and
the book is me and the podcast, me.
And so it's unavoidable to have a podcast that you talk on and not have it somehow
be about you, it just doesn't happen.
So that's a real challenge.
And I do my best to mitigate that, but you can't stop it.
It is factually a podcast that I'm in.
It is factually a book that I wrote.
Right.
You know, it's a book that factually lay for wrote.
So that's just what it is.
And so you can't take those away.
The only thing that mitigates that feeling from me is again what I just said is when
you got, when I got soldiers, marine, or I got seal teammates in mind, that are fired up.
And they're saying, hey, that was awesome.
Thanks to that one.
This was great.
I never knew that or whatever they're going to say.
Right.
And then on top of that, you know, you get civilians that are saying, hey, I stopped using
drugs because of your podcast.
That is awesome.
Yeah.
I don't like drugs.
And so when somebody tells me that they stop using drugs because of the podcast, that makes
me feel very gratified.
When somebody calls me up, I just had a, or somebody on Twitter just said a guy is like
53 years old.
And he said, hey, I've lost X amount of pounds, 40 something pounds.
And he said, I just did the first legit pull up of my life.
53 years old.
53 years old just did the first legitimate pull up of his life.
He's like, thank you.
That is worth the, the, the daggers that stick me in my brain because I know I sold out.
Yeah.
I sold out.
But that's what it is.
Is it just in your, I mean, do you get like scrutiny from people at all for quote unquote
selling out or is it not?
Or do you think, yeah, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my,
my, my, my, my I'm frozen the teams are part, they're, they're, they're, they're right that's
what I would think, and it is because the whole dynamic.
I mean, yeah.
I mean, you got as be like, jokalo podcast.
It's called jokalo podcast.
It's about me you kind of have to do that.
Yeah.
I mean, there's, there's a small element of that that you have to include about yourself.
The credibility reasons are this stuff, but then aside from that it's, it's valuable stuff.
It's not glorious.
You can stuff it all.
This is like stuff that's helpful.
They don't help.
If you the stuff that you can benefit from from this podcast from the book if your neighbor
If the people in your neighborhood all the incorporated these principles into their life it'd be a better neighborhood
So it's not like you know, I'm just this you're looking me. I'm a warrior
You know, it's not that no
So it makes it worth I mean I mean I mean I did it though that like tradition if let's just say if there is like
A person who's like hey, you know like a I did what you're doing but you shouldn't do that
That's the code that's a tradition that's the you the code you sold out. I would understand that
But I think that's just like you're not looking at the big picture. Yeah
Yeah, no it definitely was when I hear back from when I hear like I said when I hear from actor
Do you know it's when I hear from my seal bros that are that are telling me
This is awesome that that's that makes it worthwhile to me and
That's sort of why I keep doing it that and again
These civilian folks that are out there that are that are just changing their lives and and again
I whenever they say all thank you I say I didn't do anything you did it that guy that did his first pull-up his first legit pull-up and
53 years of life you know what that's awesome
I didn't do that pull-up. He did he had to put all the work and all he did was change that
It didn't get in the game and now he's you know
Haven't a much better situation in this life because your life is better if you go from zero pull-ups to one your life just got better
Your life just got a lot better as a matter of fact. Yeah, so yeah, but but it was interesting as I sat here and talked about the cool
When I thought about the question the biggest turnaround
I've been really pretty
Steady in my beliefs for a long time. I mean about this you mean no just in general
Just like in general if you if you were to interview me now and you interviewed me 10 years ago
They be close. I was probably a little bit
Dumber 10 years ago as dumbed number six months ago, but my broad beliefs would be somewhat similar, right?
And it's awesome thinking okay, what's the biggest turnaround and then I realized oh yeah
Obviously this is a huge turnaround for me and and there were guys that you know
When guys in the sealed teams found out that I had a book coming out
There was definitely some guys that were like dude. What are you doing and I'll you know and then they'd read it and say
Hey man, you know credit cool all good you know and that's the way it is let's say you were to
Not rewind life, but you're
Take the jockel from before
Before Romadi how about that?
Jockel from and then the idea was in jodos. Hey like what do you like what did you feel about that like if someone went and wrote a book and did you know
Did it get something like what was your take-
There's no podcast back then, but generally
Generally negative. Yeah, that's that's why it's a big turnaround right because if you told me that years ago
I'd be like, you know, we're quite professionals. We don't do that kind of thing. So here I am Mr. Quiet professional
Yeah, that's okay. Not so quiet
Still a professional though trying to keep a professional definitely trying to keep a professional
I'm that it's good. Yeah, the is there you know how like some you know people who change their
Attitude on things all the time sometimes get frowned upon this is just in general for being like a flip flapper
Yeah, well like politics stuff, but isn't that kind of good if you're if your ideas about things always are updated
Yeah, it's okay with me. I don't mind if people
Change their opinion over time as they as they bring on new knowledge, but there's a point where that becomes ridiculous
right
Yeah, well, yeah, it kind of depends on why they're changing their mind. Yeah, sure, too
So if it's like with the introduction of new facts and stuff like that and they're like, okay, I didn't know all that now
You know it paints a broader you know, more after your pictures so now I feel this way
We're starting to feel this way about but there's a there's a bias
You know talk about how to advice called it's called a I think it's called backfire effect and it's the opposite so like new factual
informational come in and
The tendency is to be like is to dig deeper into your current belief. Oh for sure
In fact, I can I can talk about that I've seen that happen before and when I've seen that happen as people
When they the way that they first learn to do something in the seal teams
Is the way they believe is correct and you have to beat it out of them
Like like oh as we learn new tactics
Whenever wherever some guy went to their first training at a seal team wherever they went and whoever taught them
That's sort of what they believe and anyone else that comes in with a new idea will be oh
Man, you don't know what you know, that's not the best way and so and I I figured that out real quick when I was in training
When I was running training and I realized oh, oh, I got to get over this barrier of you know this guy learned it at this team or
Wherever and or he learned it from this guy and so he's got to have that in his head that that's the only way to do things cool
Just got to I wouldn't aggressively attack it of course. I'd say oh, yeah, that's a great tactic
What they do yeah that this and you know what what we're about to show you actually mixes in with that tactic good
You might want to you know
It's something you could use along with your tactic and then they'd realize that the tactic we're teaching is superior
Because we've evolved right I had to evolve we learned tactics new tactics all the time the fundamental principles didn't change
But the execution at a tactical level would change because we got better up
They did yeah, well, it's good. It's called war
You know we went to war and as soon as we went to war we started figuring out some of the stuff where that we had been taught
Didn't really function the way we it's it was literally like pre UFC martial arts. Yeah
That's right, you know pre UFC martial arts if you learn that you know if I touch your neck in this particular
Man or you're gonna fall down and nothing is gonna save you from that and if you get taught that
You might believe it yeah and then somebody punches you in the face
Or does a double leg take down and you and slaps you into the ground and then you get their knackers
Yeah, when you try and karate chop their neck
So it was the same thing in the sealed things we had tactics that had evolved during a peace time environment in a in a bubble
And so when the war started we said, oh, okay, we need to we need to do an immediate check on all these things
Yeah
My friend was in from out of town in this past weekend. We watched the fights and the guys were in this specific position
You know standing kind of from the back there and he and he asked
He's like hey
Couldn't he just like throw knees and give him like the meanest Charlie horse right there and then agree like
It's not we'll say it's not condescending or anything but if you don't know you don't know yeah, it's like
So we said
No, I mean yeah, you could but that wouldn't do anything
I mean, I don't think you even feel that you know
Not a UFC fight how I put it was I said Charlie horses are for when you're cruising and
You see your friend you're like, oh, you're my friend Charlie horse and you do it and it like hurts
I mean like oh, you know, but no when you're in fighting like yeah, you don't really feel it Charlie horse
You know now
That being said if somebody if you're in a position somebody starts dropping
Yeah
12 the six elbows onto your thigh and they're big enough and they're big and you're kind of stuck there
You'll feel those you'll see a guy even in the UFC you'll see a guy make adjustments to move because he doesn't want to
Get take you know 12 those shots
That's not gonna be fun. Yeah my example was a leg kick so leg kick is essentially
Can be like a Charlie horse. You know like you know how like if you're friendly Charlie
Really know and that's the point yeah, the point is like
What you would think is a common Charlie horse like with your friend or at school
Whatever like oh like an elbow where you punch it or even you need it or whatever
Is different than like the kind of Charlie horse that will be effective in yeah and but in a fight in an MMA
It takes even
99% of the time with leg kicks it does take multiple
It takes rounds worth of leg kicks before you can actually affect the guy it might slow the guy down a little bit
He's a little less apt to to have weight on that front leg or whatever
But then you know you see there's been fights that have ended because third or fourth round the guys been kicked in the leg
47 times and it's it's just
Easy breaks yeah
Yeah, it's just yeah again this one of those things like if you don't know you don't know
It seems that's how it is and then
Yeah, there's much in the world that looks like that
In that if you don't know it seems like it'd be easy
Yeah, and it's not easy and jiu-jitsu to classic or MMA is a classic example that but there's so many things
I mean even a normal sport
You know baseball
Hey, how hard can be to hit that ball all sports x yeah all sports rock climbing
You know you look at say all that dude what money just grabbed that thing right there
Yeah, no hold on yeah, just hold on no doesn't work that way yeah
Football like you know when they drop the ball
Oh my gosh, you couldn't even get your balls right in his hands. Okay, so try you you're a football now
Of course they're trained on the sand, but you you know
That's kind of part of the point you know them being trained made it look like it's so easy you've seen it done on that
Yeah, and what's interesting is when this transfers over into
The interpersonal and the leadership realm and it's the same exact thing where
If you don't know you don't know and you see people that are you know younger leaders or they're not very
Experience and they'll be making the same kind of rookie mistakes or have the same kind of
Of opinion of
We won't we just tell them to do this. Oh, that's very easy. Why you tell them to can't tell them just don't do that
You just tell them to do that. They're just not gonna listen to you because they don't have respect for you because you don't have
Relationship you you have a built-in thing up yet
So you can end up with the same thing in that aspect of life as you do in a war fighting aspect of life as you do in a sports
As-meck-a-life. It's all the same. Yeah, you've got to learn the skills
You got to practice the skills
Yeah, too
Even like shooting a gun. Yeah. Oh super easy, right?
Yeah, let's see somebody knock out. You know, it's it's it's a skill. I mean it's easier
It's obviously easier
To kill someone with a gun than it is with a knife or with your bare hands. It's an easier method
But yeah, you see you know you see this all the time you see little gun fights where people fire shoot
20 25 rounds add another guy and they don't hit them and they're only ten feet away
You know, so shooting is easier, but it it still is a skill. You know that you need to practice
No man in this not to mention just all that like input they like just firing it, you know like on movies
They got to be like one hand, you know whatever boom boom
A more accurate representation of how we would go is like you know the kind of movies where the girl
They they totally do mean women a lot of times when they the girl grabs the gun and she's like
And she shoots it and then like it flies out of her hand. Oh, yeah, that's probably pretty accurate if you ever shot a gun
Well, yeah, if someone's never shot a gun before yeah, the first time I ever took my wife to a range to to teach her shooting and she was kind of that way
You know kind of scared and intimidated and she was kind of yeah, almost shaking a little bit and
a half an hour later
I had her doing quick draws from the holster gun and down targets
I said yeah, you're over it now. I want you she's just shut up and reload my magazine
Okay cool we got this you're seeing those videos online. I mean, I don't know how much time he's been watching videos online
But they're more just for entertainment, but of people like shooting
The
Oh, it's a nice
It's a good
If I'm gonna spend time watching videos I'm watching the actual guys that are good that have some knowledge to put out on
Right stuff so
So check
Although you can learn from watching somebody
Yeah, what's the face for the shotgun?
Well, where they shoot it wrong. All right awesome. Next question
I had a few questions relating to my family life for guys who joined the seals my boyfriend is interested in taking the past
This is coming from the girl. Oh, okay interesting
Jocca you have mentioned being married while a seal was it hard on you on you and your wife and family
It was for a newlywed
That's the left candidate. That's the answer for soft special operations forces. There you go
So
This is actually this was two questions and basically
From the other side and beat by the way everyone that's asked can I bring my wife on here my wife has given me the stern
Negative
She's not coming. You know why because she's legit quite professional. She's just legit quite professional. You don't want any of this
Glory no, she did it just cuz she loves the job
So my wife has said no and after and someone said you know I said went back and forth to somebody on social media
And they said hey
Flanker
I Ben she's a she knows this game bro. She's not gonna get flanks super easy
But what I'm doing is kind of playing a long-term game on playing some seeds and whatnot trying to get her
Maybe to think about how she could help some other folks out there so you know we're trying to work through
There is some flanking activity going on
We're gonna see where it goes but this question
Being married to a guy that's in special operations or in the sealed teams or whatever
It is a hard life
in many ways and
You know the sealed teams we had a 90% divorce rate by the way a 90 and I think it's come down a little bit
I'm not 100% sure. I don't know what the current numbers are today, but man when I was a young kid
Everybody was divorced. You know guys were just getting married divorced all the time
So here's the here's the couple things that I would tell you that I think made
Made my marriage last right aside from my wife. You know awesome. Of course right first credit
But here's a couple things
number one
You have to respect the fact that the job is the number one priority
And
That is completely different from one a lot of people think and I don't mean to be offensive by that
By saying that but the job has to be number one and for me and I've said this before on interviews
The job was the most important thing to me and
My wife didn't take offense to that she didn't when I said I'm gonna work but it's Saturday doesn't matter
You know, oh I'm going I'm gonna not gonna be coming home tonight
Why I'm going to work and then I'm going out with my friends because we're gonna go and hang out because that's what we do
You know and she never would get offended by that instead she realized okay
Yeah, his job is the most important thing. He's got to take care of himself. He's got to take care of his guys
He's got to take care of his job. He's got to take care of the country
So I am number two. That's cool. You know what I need to do is help support him and so that is
That is
What was happening and and so what that means is your wife
In this case you young lady that's asking this question you need to be an independent person right?
You
You need to be self-sufficient and and that's not just self-sufficient with
You know
being able to
Clear the toilet when it gets clogged up and you know call the plumber when the
Water heater breaks and handle all that administrative stuff and all the tasks around the house and provide you know
Take care of the finances because your your husband's gonna be gone
He's gonna be gone. He's gonna be on a work-up. He's gonna be
It's gonna be gone a lot and so you gotta be able to handle all that stuff and on top of that you have to be self-sufficient emotionally
Emotionally self-sufficient where you don't need to have this constant
You know constant flow of affection coming from this guy who has a bunch of other things to worry about
Yeah, right so
That's hard to do and it's hard. I think that's one of the problems. I mean that's why
There's probably a high divorce rate because it's hard to find a
Girl or a woman that can do those things. Yeah, right so
It's that that will make
That's part of the solution here now the husband obviously
big things you gotta do is
Leave your job at work
Right and
Don't
Don't bring it home with you. I've talked about this before you know
Don't in the seal teams you don't have to you when you get done with work you change you put on your civilian clothes
You go home so you're not bringing that with you. That's sort of a psychological
Moment to change and and get those out but there's also the attitude
That you can carry over very easily because
This seal teams and and special operations in the military general with definitely the seal teams is a hostile
Environment with your friends your friends are not
supportive caring
nurturing friends no your friends are just
Just savages right everything they're looking for weakness. It's it's I mean it's all fun
But it's all just a constant it's a constant just battle verbal battle verbal abuse all day long
It's fun like we're having fun with it
That's the six cents a humor you know when Tim Kennedy was on here and they made that movie rage for range 15 and all all that that like kind of sick twisted sense of humor is
What you're living in and there's a real problem that occurs when you take that little six
sense of humor and that abusive personality that you develop at work and you bring it home
Yeah, that happened to me when I went to college and
Also, I wasn't around any team guys anymore all day long no more team guys and then here
I am
And what do I do now? I come home from going to school all day which was annoying and then the first person I talked to because I didn't talk to anyone
When I was school unless I was asking them a specific question about some knowledge or some
Thing that was happening in a class other than that I didn't make any friends
So I come home and I want to socialize what was the only way? I knew how to socialize with people cutting them down
I'm abusing them and I that's a little bit strong, but you know definitely making comments and and trying to have a good time through
Through cutting people down and so you know and I've talked about this before I think somebody's
Kind of grabbed on to this, but you know for instance
You know before I was going to college when I was just in the team. It's my wife would make dinner
Whatever it is she makes it hey cool. Thank you appreciate it when I was going to school all of a sudden
Not around team guys anymore. I want to have some fun when I come home
And you know
She'd cook me something and I would
Have some comments about this right and and
Eventually and it was very cool when she said this to me she didn't think of big deal
She just goes hey, I'm not a team guy. You know, you know
I think I said something about this dried chicken that's your name my wife has always had some issues getting moist
Checked right it always I don't know she's paranoid about food poisoning when she cooks it man
She cooks it big time. I mean she goes the distance right she will cook that thing until you know
You're you got to bring a gallon of water to the table just to get through the meal
So she's actually got a lot better the recent years
So anyways back in the day I'd say she's say oh, you know
I made you some chicken and I'd say oh can can you just go ahead and bring me three gallons of water to the table
And then it was one of those comments that I made one time where she says you know, I'm not a team guy
And I kind of laughed and I said oh my gosh look what I'm doing
I'm treating her like a team guy and she's not a team guy. She doesn't need to be treated like that
so I just put myself in check and
Got myself under control and
Treated my wife like the good person that she is so
There's that
There's
Communication it's and this is this is weird thing because everyone's gonna say communication
But my point here is don't expect communication
Right don't expect to be engaged one of my buddies was married and
We were going on to plant this is a long time ago. He was married. He had three three kids
Been married to you married a high school sweetheart blah blah blah blah
And he lived in Coronado where where the seal teams are he lived there and
His wife he lived there with his wife and one day he dropped off his car. He had to get his car worked on or something like that
And he said
This is we've been at the seal teams for five years. He's married the whole time been a seal team one and one time he says to his wife
Hey, you know he calls her that says hey can you come pick me up?
Because we got to go somewhere bummer back and she goes yeah
She says where are you he goes I'm at the team and she goes where is it and Coronado by the way is only like a mile long
And and so it was a classic example of
He never told his wife even where the buildings were or what he did or anything like that and that's just the way it was
then
a lot of
Successful seal marriages that I've seen there's not a lot of hey this is what I did at work today and hey this guys a jerk and hey
We're trying to make this happen. Hey. I got trouble for this
So there's none of that there's just like work and then there's what we have right and I think
That you've got to separate those two but what I'm saying is this idea of communication happening all the time
It's not gonna happen all the time
It's not gonna and I don't even know if it's I don't think it's beneficial when I was overseas
I wouldn't call my you could you could call your wife you know basically every day if you want to I didn't call my wife every single day
I don't want to call my wife every day it makes time slow down. It doesn't speed it up
Just don't call call like once a week. That's what I call my life once a week. Hey, how you doing?
I'm fine. How's everything at home?
I would just ask her questions about home didn't didn't tell her anything that was going on ever and just said
Oh, yeah, how's this? Oh, yeah, did you get the you know? How's the car and did you get the water heater fixed and how's the kids doing and it's going blah blah
Ask her questions because otherwise you're gonna start talking about your world and then that's gonna make them worried and
Concerned and everything else and you don't want that
So you don't need to talk to somebody every single day that you do it. That's neediness
That's emotional
That's what I was talking about earlier with well with being emotionally independent, right?
You got to be independent. You can't need that like security of a
Call me and talk to me. No, actually. I'm not gonna call you. I'm not gonna talk to you. You go to your thing. I'm doing my thing
You know on top of that I think it's cool if you want to set some goals, you know together
Make a little team, you know you're trying to make some things happen. You're trying to make some financial goals
There's some family goals, there's some house goals, you know
We want to get new carpet. I want to put some new wallpaper up. We whatever, you know, I want to add a you know
Disdo stuff and make those goals maybe make some to get two goals together
That's always good my wife was really good at jujitsu
She's kind of stopped training when she started having babies every 18 months and all that
What but you know we we stab a blast training jujitsu all the time
So I obviously recommend the jujitsu to help all relationships
Working out together is another good one. You know even if you can't get the jujitsu together
You can you can you can just work out you know work out together and
That's cool and then you've got to give each other some space
Right got to give each other some space the guy the guy
He's a team guy. He's a special operations guy. He's gonna hang with us friends sometimes and that's the way it goes
There's nothing wrong with that
That's the way things work and you know what she's gonna go do the same thing so that's okay
Yeah, so I think those the main things. You know JP when JP was on here
He made a good point of put put each other first right pretty simple point that goes a long way
Yeah, that goes a long way. Yeah, which is contrary to what I said which is like the team is gonna come first
But that's your job and
I think you can still put your team as the number one priority and doing your job as your number one priority
Because that's that's the thing I said this a million times right
Hey, listen darling
The reason I have to do my job well is cuz this is what we do we fight and guys are gonna be trying to kill us
So the best thing I can do for our relationship is stay alive
Yeah, so that means and not only that, but I got these guys that also need to stay alive for their wives
So we're gonna work hard. We're gonna train hard. We're gonna play hard. We're gonna know each other better
We're gonna we're gonna bond and all those things are gonna happen and that's how I can best support this family is by kicking ass at my job
And if you're a smart wife you'll go that makes sense to me and it'll be okay
So in putting your job as a number one priority
You're actually supporting the family and you're you're putting your world your
spouse first
Because you're trying to take care of yourself take care of your team so that you can come home when when
It's time to come home. Yeah
Yeah, JP made it I mean the put each other first. That's kind of like a
Like
Data it's like you got to remember that you know because you know all like you're on two different pages
You know, yeah, you got to put you're gonna you're gonna remind yourself
Yeah, yeah, but man it helps
Helps a lot if you even doing that lately
I like the audition. I like how JP put it, you know, we just put each other for us. It's real like dang that kind of
Resonated
Like using that word, but it resonated, you know where you like using that word. I don't know you know those words
You know certain words just sound dumb coming out of your mouth. Is that one of them in my opinion? It comes sounds out of anyone's no out of my
I think I sounded pretty good actually. Oh, thanks
But yeah, that was a good good luck by the way good luck
To these guys that are trying to get in the special operations community
Obviously, obviously, I loved it and it was awesome for me and I'll tell you my wife
There was definitely hard, man. It was a hard it's a hard path and when your husband's over on deployment and
Your home and guys are coming home
wounded or guys are getting killed overseas that that's
That's gonna be that's hard and that's one of the things that I talk about the strength of the spouses and the
Independence and be able to deal with those hardships when they come that's real stuff and so to the women out there that support these guys
God bless you
Yeah, that that point you made where
I think it's probably just had it really a little bit when you treat your wife like a team guy, you know like how cuz
That's how you used it like bonding with people you like and also in a way. It's like it's good. Yeah
I treat it like good. Yeah, man
It's not a dose is not a one-way street, man. He can be doing that. I do I had the same thing because that's how me and my brother
We just that's it the whole thing is like you really make to make the funniest joke about the other guy, you know
And then so Sarah was like our friend
Even we got together, so she kind of and she would she didn't like that even from the beginning, but once you're kind of like in the relationship
She kind of got a lot of and she constantly constantly like
I'm not you're you know and of course. I'm not your brother
Yeah, I'm not your brother my friend like that kind, you know, but but of course if you're not looking at it as like a two-way street
You're like wait you should be happy. I'm treating you like this, you know
This is my way of showing affection. Exactly right you should be happy, right?
No, no, that's a different person. Yeah, you know
Next question
B. J. J. Question one
B. J. J. Q. One?
I don't know. It does mean question one. Yes. There you go
What's the best ratio of drilling to sparring in question two is what do you do if you roll with someone new to Giu-Jitsu and they're over aggressive like the beast took over
Can't they want to hurt people? I don't think they really do but the adrenaline rush takes
Experience to manage
What's a good what's a good approach on you know on the mat to let them know that they're being reckless and wasting energy without sounding like a douche
All right, so question one the ratio of drilling to sparring
I'm probably not the best person to ask this question because I like to roll nobody's the best person asked that question
Maybe but I like to roll and I should probably drill more, but I like to roll the rolling is the funnest thing
We were training yesterday and we got done training yesterday and we were sitting there. We were watching some other people training stuff
And I was like man, I just love to do so fun
What we do in our of rounds and so I just got done in an ice and man, do you see so fun it's so fun and
So I like to roll and drilling is not as fun right when I said yeah, we did rounds
That means we were just rolling for those of you that don't train
Well first of all go train go find a place to train and by the way all these people that asked me questions about if they should train
Yeah, yes, you should train you got a million different reasons why you shouldn't train like what was the one you just responded to somebody on social media
It said you know, hey, what if the only option I have is a place with just white belts
Even the instructors the white belt is it worth it? Yes, yeah, it's worth it go on YouTube
You can learn a billion different moves on YouTube and go start rolling these other white belts
And you guys were all gonna get better and you know who doesn't matter what the belts are
So you know whether you're that person or whether you're the person that says hack and only make it once a week because I travel go once a week
Yeah, you go if you're the person that says hey, man, I got you know this knee injury and I can only
Roll like one day before it gets too sore. Okay roll one day and you know what if you can doesn't mean you have every time you get on the mat
You don't have to go psycho right
Which is what I guess we'll get to that question, but if you can't roll super hard
Then just roll a little lighter and roll what you can and we get guys
Some of our really dedicated you do guys they get hurt. They still come in trail. They can't even roll, but they'll come in
Hey, man, let's just let me just work my whatever I can do let me work my own lock. You know, I that's a one motion
I can do so I'm gonna work that that's cool. Um
So I think you should drill more I think I should drill more, but I just like to roll so much and
I'll tell you I think this does change a little as you get better because
I mean obviously a black belt doesn't need to drill as much as a white belt does because a white belt has a lot more moves to learn
but
everybody
Should drill more and I think if I was to say something like probably a third of the time you should be drilling maybe
I'll take something else you learn to move drill it until you're good at it
Then you won't need to drill it anymore and the other thing about drilling is and drilling is awesome
drilling also I could drill a move 15,000 times
drill only and when I go to roll somebody I won't be able to do it
It doesn't mean you'll be able to do it and in fact I still got to do it a hundred more times live
Against another real active human before I can pull the move off. That's the way it works
Occasionally there's a few moves that either they are that simple or
You have a natural ability to do them that does happen sometimes where like occasionally
I'll get I there's some moves that just makes sense to me right and I'm always as soon as I learn
I can do them. That's a rare. I mean it's that happens 10% of the time most of the time
I learned something and I try it and I get stuff and then I got to try it again
I got to make my own little adjustments to it and then I got to do it again
then you that's the way you get to works
So drill a bunch all right
Quick question to someone that is going level seven psychopath on the mat seven the highest level
Hmm 10 right I guess but seven is still we're not a hundred percent sure
Level as I don't think it's been seen. It's not level one. Yeah, definitely not level one this guy is above normal psycho level
I'll say this well above
Normal psycho level so
First of all if you're higher belt you just shot them down right you just shot them down small to them
I like see if I get someone that's going really super crazy. I will
I will immobilize them to where they cannot move and I will let the rage drain it all this time
Yeah, I'll just let it drain out of them and all you know
Just
Let the rage train and then all submit them and then all submit them again
And I'll just do that over and over again and then I'll probably just you know
Have a little chat with them like hey, man. You just relax a little bit because all that all that
Going crazy is not helping you get better at what we're trying to do here
hmm
now
When you tell somebody you're actually tell them don't you strength of course those are the things that no one can
Actually apply right very seldom can someone say
You yeah, I guess hey man just relax and they go okay cool. And you have a nice roll. No, it doesn't happen. They go even harder
so
That's what you're gonna do you eventually just keep wearing them down and say hey, man, you know I'm telling you got a real action
Not gonna see you're not gonna see as much if you're so going psycho now
So that's if you're a high-arbote. That's what I do control them put them you know
Force them to accept their fate and that will help them move down the path towards relaxation now if you're a lower-bout
You can either
Fight to the death which is fine
I mean kind of join in their mayhem and if you want to do that that's okay, or you can work your technique right and get dominated so so
Guy comes in and you know you talk about the same level, but he's a lot stronger than you
He's going crazy and you just go okay, you know I'm just gonna work my technique the best of my I can and I'm not gonna
Escalate this and you know what you're gonna get tapped out because you guys are at the same level
But he's using all of the strength and you're not now you're gonna get better at you did so, but you're not gonna notice that for a while
So what happens?
You get caught up in their ego trip and you start going just as hard as they're going and that's way it works now
If you can just say you know what I'm just gonna keep relaxing with this guy and eventually
I'm gonna learn more than him and that will happen you will learn more than the first and that's going psycho and then you can put them to tap
So
You know all so I was
Tim Ferriss sent some email out the other day and it had a quote on there
from
Leo Tolstoy and it said
Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself
but and and I was like
That's interesting and I immediately thought of the jitter because I tried explain this concept people in jitter and that is
When you're going especially again someone that's bigger than you are stronger than you or someone that's going crazy
And they're using all of their muscles
the way this translates in jitter is in jitter to everyone thinks of moving the other person
But what you need to focus on is moving yourself and there's some really clear examples of this and but this is just translates in life
It translates in the life you know, it's this is what flanking is right if I come up against you and you got a big ego and you're not budget anything
I'm not gonna continue attack that way. I'm not gonna try and move you remove myself into a better position
So I thought that was a
Good thing to think about you when you're rolling with somebody that's big and going crazy. Yeah, that's a good point
That's a good thing to think about all day every day about everything
Especially you know people who are agree who are like hey, man, I need a job and that's you know
That's nothing this is nothing new where I think I need a job, you know, dang there's no job that here or whatever and that's kind of an example of that, you know
where
Don't look at it like a job needs to be presented to you, you know, you have to kind of you need to maneuver
Yeah, yeah change yourself so you know you can
Do the work that people need you know
Conquer don't move the world move yourself don't try and move your opponent move yourself
Yeah, the guy or drilling and sparring you were kind of trying to move me a lot yesterday FYI
I moved you know you were trying to move me a lot whatever you were coming with a really aggressive
Really aggressive methodology I would say yeah
default the default the aggressive the drilling
It by experience if you ask if you thought you were getting frustrated
That was and and I saw it's like okay, he's getting frustrated and I thought to myself
He's getting frustrated at me
You know and the reason I was like I I almost fell into your game
Psychologically because as we're rolling and you're getting more and more frustrated
So you're being more aggressive and part of your it seemed to me part of your frustration and your aggression was that I was
Not fully disengaging but I was not getting into this game that you were in and
And as I saw that you were gonna keep coming with us and and I said well, you know
I don't want him to get frustrated, you know at me
So maybe I'll play this a little bit and then I said oh wait
I'm truly actually doing your jits. I'm doing your jits. I'm just straight doing your jits
I'm not I'm totally not getting into this head banging competition normally be over here
You know I'm gonna be over here so I thought that was isn't that kind of wet and I black it's actually really good how that worked because if you remember I
Kind of start to lose it mentally not like temperalizer nothing but
Like basically there's like a there's like a little small short list. I don't know if you know this I've mentioned this
Not in this depth. There's a small list of things that I'm working on with you
It's like a small thing like where if I can
Remembrance do this, you know because
You're the kind of word like you to defend a certain thing you got to focus really hard and defending it
But the the drawback to that is when you start like really focusing on defending it all it takes is one little
Yeah, so
There's like a few things that is like dang I get it it's like a balancing act. Yeah, I don't want to forget here
I don't want to forget here. You know, so it's like that and
A lot of times then it's it's by my own evaluation. It's not based on like X it's in my own head like okay
Like I feel good about this is coming along, you know kind of thing and
Whether you notice this or not towards towards the end
Like it might it like it was just done gone the whole my whole thing is just gone. Yeah, it's all just
Blight grade
That's what I was truly thinking I was thinking I was thinking he's getting mad at me
But I'm really doing actual like the purest form of jiu-jitsu
Which is hey you keep coming with all that and I'm just gonna keep adjusting and making other things happen
Yeah, it's like it's like it's like this cycle
That was fun, but yeah, it was good though. We're all thinking that the drilling
Different people of different philosophies on undriling yeah
Because I mean like surfing you know like okay when you drill and move this like
Okay, do the armor you know do the whole transition to the arm bar and then you know just drill that when you first learn the arm bar
It's gonna have more value because you have to just know the fundamental movement of the arm bar
Just like how you said like it's gonna be different when you do it life. Do it life. Yeah, so
Once you kind of get the fundamental movement of the arm bar
You legs gotta be here. They gotta do this certain thing your arms position his thought all this all that stuff
Once you kind of get that down
It's like man you step into the value being now you gotta know when to do it. How to so you know
I don't know if I'm gonna say this before on the podcast. I've said it when I've taught when I teach you to do this
Something I say okay, there's let's say 10 things that you have to do right to make a move work
Okay 10
Got to put your arms here. You got to put your hips here. You got to put your grip here or whatever those 10 things are that you got to do
I can teach you about four of them. You know, okay?
Maybe I can teach you five maybe Jeff Glover or Dean or are a good instructor can teach you six or seven
Maybe even eight of those components
There's two more components. You're only gonna figure out on your set on your own. You're only gonna figure out where to distribute
You wait by yourself. You're only gonna describe you how to time
What the execution the move is by yourself. You're only gonna figure out
How to feel what the other person and when they're vulnerable to the move you're only gonna get those by doing it live
All only gonna be doing it getting it by doing it live
So those are the components and you know there's more than 10 actually there's probably like
80 yeah, that's a little components that you have to do and
And what's cool is when you really focus on a particular move you have you have all these components just
Lock solid and when someone's really good at a certain move
Yeah, they just like there's so there's so there's they've been in that situation so many times
Yeah, they've been in that situation so many times that it doesn't matter
They you're doing something they already thought of that they've done they've been in that position
Like there's a position in GJ2 for those either don't know there's a position in GJ2 called a 50 50
Which we originally called Cochoreco, which Dean kind of I would say started because
He did it in ADCC in 2003 and it was a position that we were doing all the time at that time
But no one else was doing it and now a bunch of people do it Ryan Hall's made it famous and he's the one I think he
Going out and who going to phrase 50 50 but he's got a academy called 50 50. Yeah, thin there. It's good nice
So so but it's a position where you're fairly neutral your leg positions are neutral
So you're you have the same leg position and
So it's who knows the position better will win and so this position that they call 50 50 now, which we used to call Cochoreco
It's actually Dean calls it 90 10
Meaning hey, I yeah, I have a 90 percent chance or you have a 10 percent chance because I've spent months
Sitting in this position so
When you get someone that really knows a position well that puts you at a massive disadvantage if you're going against them
Yeah, because you guys both know the drilling part of it, you know, but
Those you know is the one million different other elements in light like surfing you know like you know when you first take surfing
They're like hey, you know, let's do it on the sand when there's and there's it's just that's basically drilling
Oh, yeah, you're understanding up and yeah, I don't know then you got to go out to the actual ways and then the waves
That's you know, it's different and again these principles from GJ2 are they applied to everything that you do it and when you're going through a leadership situation
If you've seen it before if you've seen this kind of person's added like I just told that story about hey, it's the guy that's learned something
The first way he learned it in the seal teams is the way he believed it show is big
One side experience that it was much easier for me to handle you know, so anytime you can open up your mind and pay attention on what's going on around you
It's going to make you better at handling all these different situations that you come across in any environment
This absolutely leadership environment you get the person with the giant ego you get the person that's that wants to take over you get the person that's
I'm scared to step up you get all those things you get someone that's being
Disrespectful how you gonna all I've had that before let's just go let me approach it
You know what I mean? So the more you get to handle these different positions or the more you can research them and drill them because the drilling does pay off
You know that's what all this gathering of trying to gather knowledge from various books
Anyone you see something in a military situation like I see all these things in a military situation. I go, okay. Oh, I see what they did here
Oh, I see what hack worth did here. I see what patent did here now
I'm though patent. I'm gonna hack worth but at least I have a hands-up
Yeah, at least I see the scenario before I've gone through a mental drill of how I handled now
There's components that I need to figure out on my own
But I've got the bulk of the move there. Yeah, I recognize what's happening
It puts me at a little better situation than having no idea what's happening and just getting flanked
Potentially
Yeah, very much and then I get it nuts rolling the spas. Mm-hmm
For that guy, by the way, it's it's a spas. Yeah white belt warrior. Yes sure there's that
I think that's overall just kind of part of the game. There's so many different ways to like deal
I mean as a higher belt. I mean you you kind of I mean
I don't think you have the crystal knowledge, but you're you've been a high belt for a long time. So
My average me personally has an individual. Yeah, yeah, so okay when you get a guy who's like
When you first start like my memory is the first starting and going with big big strong guys who are getting nuts
It's it is hard to deal with that straight-up like yeah, and if you're smaller
It's even you know, it's even harder and you could go a little man
You just it doesn't work right if you don't if you're a blue belt and you get a 200 if you're a 160 pound blue belt and a
3-hunt or a 280 pound
College wrestler comes in and it's his first day
You're not going to be a man. You just a very good chance. You might be able to catch him
You might be able to catch him. Yeah, but it's no guarantee. No, it's unlikely to
Yeah, it's it's hard to core. Yeah, yeah, and that's part of the feeling
You know, yeah, but now maybe a blue belt maybe a little challenging purple belt. You now purple belt. Yeah, you start different ball game see the holes. Yeah, yeah, but those and yeah if you're
And I'm just completely speaking just from experience and thinking of it right now, but
There are little things that you'll see come forward like little tactics
You can use to someone who's just bigger stronger and spasin little tactics
And not to say that you'll like you know end up tapping them out or whatever, but certain things that will be successful in your
Situation so all you do is you kind of remember those things kind of work on that and wait to you see the next little thing
Okay, then after a while is your game develops
It'll be like oh shoot you have this handful of things that works on these types of guys. Yes, you know glove
He he he he like does best
Against he goes yeah guys that are big and strong are you know sort of his his game matches really well against them
Against Jeff because he just so fluid. Yeah, yeah
All right
Druckle like yourself. I tend to have low opinions slash expectations of people my question is how do you act friendly with someone
When you know they're trying to play passive aggressive power games with you
Say say you know person and you know is a snake, but social and work situations demands and expects that you act like their friend
How do you reconcile that within your mind
Is that more is that not being fake? I know you're gonna say play the game, but
But do I really have to play these snake games just to get ahead in the world?
All right, so first of all from the first part of that this this Blake and statement that I have a low opinion of people is actually
factually not true. I don't come out of the gate with a low opinion of people that's actually not true. I have
I hope for people that they're gonna do well, but I don't have
Expectations that they're gonna perform there's a difference there, right? I don't view people in a low
Am I opinion of people is not low
Out of the gate, but I don't layer heavy expectations on them because that's unfair
So that's number one
I set the bar low so people can pleasantly surprise me, but believe me. I don't have a low expectation or a low opinion of people now the question yes
You absolutely called it and what I was going to say play the game
Right, yes, that's what you're gonna do now. Let me let me put this one
You got snakes
Okay, if you don't learn to play with the snakes
You're never gonna get the anti-vendom from their fangs. You're never gonna get them figured out
And if you don't figure out how to get the anti-vendom the snake's are always gonna own you
So you got to learn how to deal with snakes. I could kid was a team to
kid from Arkansas or something and we were out in the hills somewhere and there was a rattlesnake
And he grabbed that thing like he was picking up a like he was picking up a
A pair of socks it was like no factor boom walked over picked up the snake whacked it against the tree
I said okay, that knows how to deal with snakes and it's the same thing here people are snakes
Does that mean you just avoid them and you're not gonna play the game and the worst thing
You know what you don't do with the snake?
You don't walk over and get all like intimidate him and get in their face and so it bites you
You know and and poisoned you right so
Yes, you got to play the game people like this exist
Right and and so let's say let's take a
Let's say you take the moral high ground and you refuse to work with an accepting B humane with these snakes
Okay, if that's what you do
Now guess what now this snake don't like you
Now they see you as a threat and now they attack
And
Like I said this is when they bite in a poison and they kill you and what good are you now your dead
So you can't help anybody when you're dead you can't achieve your goals. You can't help the team you can't accomplish the mission
Because you are on the moral high ground
Now let's say that you learn to play the game
You learn how to handle those snakes like that young boy from our from Arkansas
You learn their moves you get the antidote you get the anti venom for their poison
And you actually in this process you become immune to their attacks
And you reach a point where they actually don't attack you
Because they're familiar with you
And they trust you and
When that happens
Then you can overcome their weapons you can rise up you can get control of them and you can utilize them for your own
purpose right now
If that purpose was something that was self-centered or something that was for your own good and not for them or not for the team then it'd be a form of manipulation
And it'd be pretty negative
But if all you're doing is trying to get these snakes on board with the program to help the whole team win
We got no issue with that
We got no moral issue with that. I got no moral issue with me treating people nicely to try and get them on board with the program so that they can help our team win
I got no issue with that more or other ones
So
That's the answer I think you know when the time is right
You be nice to those snakes when the time is right you put that little stick with the new surround the end of it
You put it around the head and you and you collect their venom
And you can use snakes to do things like kill rats
Right snakes can be used for some kind of good at some point
Now I know it's hard right I know it's hard and
Is it being fake
It may be it is maybe that is being fake
But you're doing it for the good of the team so again. It's not for personal game. That's a huge difference and also if you think about this idea of being fake
If you would be nice to people to help the team win then isn't that actually you?
Right so how can you be fake by being you right if my if what I do is hey
I help people and I get in their head and I'll all be nice to them so we can win
Hmm if I do that that's me that's not being fake. That's actually what I do. That's not being fake so
I think regardless in the end
It is something you have to do you do have to play the game
Um
And that is how you're gonna help your team win and it's also if you want to get those snakes
To come over to the light and get away from the darkness
You're not gonna do it by trying to kill them all you're gonna do is offend them and they're gonna attack you like I
Said if you show them a good example if you're productive and when you get all that stuff done
And you accomplish your mission and what you do is you say hey, it wasn't me to accomplish the mission
It was the snakes they did it
You know what those snakes start to stand upright they start to
Defang themselves and they start to realize that maybe they can do some good out there too
I like the snake analogy. Hey, he started it
Yeah
That oh
commentary like
No, no, no, no, no way you say and you know how you slowly build that relationship
Whatever that parts hard because it takes like time it takes time
It's been more harder than time is it takes the stomach?
Yeah, yeah, because you you got the guy that you know is a slimy guy that's just looking out for themselves
You got a man what's going on. Hey Bill what's happening? Yeah good to see you hey. Yeah, no good. Yeah
God a great weekend. Thank you. Yeah, how was your weekend? Yeah, you know so you're in that mode and you got to gut through that
Because you know you're a good person right
I think
Right, I think yeah, especially passive aggressive like that can be tough because a lot of times it's way easier
If I like if I if I launch a confrontation against you, it's way easier mentally to be like okay
We're in a little better enough
But if I just do like one little big and then kind of walk away or something like that
That can be way more like trying on your mind on your patience
So and then when you when you battle through that right or the idea of I got to battle through this
Okay, this would be hard just mentally whatever
I got to battle through that oh, I guess what you got to do that for a long time
That one time that that you think that was hard. All right. Well you got to keep on even a continual
Seating ever leave yeah
That's how makes open when we're gonna admit does make a challenging but I think if you just know this if you know if you can see the light
You know what you can do too and I hate to use this word because it seems to be a trendy word right now
You got to gamify it a little bit you know when somebody does something passive aggressive to me
I'm a oh score. I'm gonna have fun with this. Hey, you're right. That was a really good job that your team did over there
You know where they say saw the little dig at me. Yeah, I think you guys did fantastic
I didn't foresee that at all. Yeah, you're you're crushing it just I say oh
Oh that hurt I guess what I'm gonna win the long run. I just want a little battle against you
Yeah, and go come let these little things bot. Don't let the little things bother you
Man think about the big stuff
You get big stuff to worry about out there
You can't let the little things bother you and are you on the right path if you're trying to do the right thing for the right reason
It's all good doesn't matter what else is going on. I'm good with it and that's what I mean
But kind of the light at the end of the tunnel like you know like you know that's where I'm going
This is just part of the thing. You know, I see the whole path
Yes, and it just makes it easier when you kind of know that but
When you're at that time
Fasten we're gonna do the worst man the kind of where I see see you talk about basketball recipe the worst
I don't this is not like this thing that bothers me. Yeah
I don't know it doesn't it's never been a big issue for me when somebody's past progress with me
I just okay cool. I see the game. We're in. I'm gonna play. Yeah, I'll play that game. I'll play that game. I'll play that man
See if you can just look at it like that and look at it like that. Yeah, man. It make it
It would almost make it the opposite situation like it. I almost be glad it does because I don't
I've never had a big issue with some guy that's being passed. I never had that. Yeah. Oh
I see it's a little shot right there. You know I'm throw some credit at them. I'm gonna flank them. Yeah, they're gonna be good
Not worried about that person that person's not really secure in the first place and they're sort of one of these
Sly me snakes, right? That are trying to make things happen. That's okay. I'll just just help them help them out
You know what you're trying to be passable. Grasmal, but bring you out in the open bring out the clear
Not enough. I'm not an offensive way, but you know what? I think you're right about that
You know, I think you could do a better job here. Come on and help my team or whatever
Yeah, because when they're doing that, what are they attacking? You're attacking. You're ego
So if you just get over that thing and just say you know what? No big deal. Yeah, that's good
I see what's going on here. Let's bring it out in the open. Yeah, bring out the open
Expose the ambush and just say hey buddy. Yeah. Oh, yeah, we're good. Let's let's move forward together as a team. How's that sound? I'm down
Now
I can 10 worth the
You know what and I'm thinking about this. I'm like, yeah, that sounds so easy, but you know I realize it's one like I care about the person and they'd be passive aggressive like or if I care about like their opinion
I say that you had to offend them
No, no, no, no, it's not not in that way. Not in the way where like I might offend them, but
Like if like you care about what they think, you know, okay, and they're like what's wrong with that?
I guess nothing but I guess maybe that's where my sensitivity to it is I mean coal workers
Maybe an haven't had coworkers in a long time. Well, I guess you're a coworker, but
You're not passive aggressive, but nonetheless, I should say you're more aggressive not
Maybe it would be in a situate like maybe a coal worker situation would be the kind of situation that I'm like thinking about
Where people would be more sensitive than it's you know what actually the other day you and I had a conversation
You might have been being passive aggressive. No, maybe you we were we're trying to do something and you said hey, you know
I'm just not sure if this is like really something we should do and I was like cool. Don't do it
Okay, that was in passive passive aggressive. That was like
It was different is like trading lightly. You know, okay. You know like you wasn't necessarily tri-strait dope
You gave me a little bit of an indication of I
Undersea I said oh there's something going on some kind of ambush here. I said okay come on out. We're good. Let's bring it out. No, but because I'm good
It's not that it's like you know I respect your opinion. Let's go with it. No factor make that happen. That was good. How I roll
Yeah, the passive aggressive is the kind where like you know if I'm mad at you for something and then
I'm like nope all good
But meanwhile my body language is saying yeah, it's like that kind of that even passive
Yes, that is what passive aggressive is it's like it's like like oh
It's all good, but then like little digs they're indicating other stuff. It's like this
Everything it's yeah super wack. Yeah, like I said when I went someone's being that wouldn't be the I'm gonna bring them all the way
Yeah, I'm gonna bring it from passive to just straight aggressive so that we can get through it because I'm not going to get
This is the thing if we're on a team
Why are we going against each other?
What's probably at the root there is just ego situation?
Yeah, you can put that to rest. You're good
Hard though hard to put that ego in check for all of us. Yeah, yeah, man
I mean coworkers are the your peers so you know it's natural to kind of care what they think even if you don't like them
You know, it's just I think it's just natural. Yeah, of course people want to do a good job and
And
Want other people to think that they're doing a good job. Yeah, another wrong with that
So when they start throwing jobs. It's okay. You know what why are they throwing a job?
Maybe you're not doing this good of jobs. You thought you were and now taking a little shot to your ego
So let's address it. Let's figure out what the issue is you know
This is like you get to yeah, I done this move I've seen this move before
Rock roll
Next question
What is
The best case you've ever heard against extreme ownership and what's your response or alternatively
Are there situations where extreme ownership is the wrong answer?
If you've never heard an argument against
Let me propose to
Okay, one extreme ownership focuses too much on achieving victory through focus on strategy and tactics
Before you even go there. I got asked that question at the master
Is there such a thing as too much extreme ownership and
I said well, yes, there is actually such a thing as too much extreme ownership for instance
And I actually broke it down to
The fact that there's two types of extreme ownership
That you're gonna have internal and external
Internal is I own everything and I know that but I'm not sitting here telling everyone right
External is hey guys. I'm gonna own this this is me. This is mine
So you can easily see from there
Where you can overplay your hand of external extreme ownership for instance
Echo you're in charge of this project that we're doing
I want you to do it like this because I own it like like that's obviously wrong
Right, so if I'm trying to get people to do things like from trying to use decentralized command and all I'm telling everyone
It's like this is my project I own it echo you do this
This is your part of the project but the project is mine right does that make does that motivate you in any way?
Okay, so we're not gonna do that that would be too much extreme ownership. It would be too much
Outward extreme ownership now
If so what I want to do is I want to say echo
Do this is your project. I'm gonna sit back let you run this thing. I think you've got a really good idea and vision on how this is gonna work
And I think you could actually do a better job than I can do so here's here's the goal that we're trying to accomplish and if you just
You know come up with a plan and tell me how you're gonna execute it. I'm standing by right now
You're like oh, jockels trust me. You can do this. That's pretty cool. Right. Yeah, that's awesome
So now we have a good thing going
So that's that's what I'm gonna keep my ownership internal
I'm not gonna project it on you to keep it internal
Now where this flips is the project fails and clearly the example now becomes crystal clear because now if I use
External ownership and I'm saying I should use external ownership and when the boss says hey jocco your team failed on this mission
I'll say you know what we did
I made some mistakes here here's what I did wrong here's we made the wrong investments
I didn't allocate resources well here my fault we're gonna get it fixed next time around won't happen
Hmm, okay, that's cool. That's I'm now correctly using excessive extreme ownership to take ownership of the project that you actually screwed up
Now obviously the wrong thing would be hey jockel this project fail and I say oh
That's because echo drop the ball on this he didn't get this done in time and echo's got issues over here
Now that's not good. I want to take I don't want to use that. I'm keeping my ownership internal
I'm being lame basically
So yes, the the argument against extreme ownership is yes if you take too much ownership of a project and you're not letting you're not using enough decentralized command
That's why there's a dichotomy between those two there's a dichotomy between extreme ownership and decentralized command
And if I use too much
Extreme ownership when I'm trying to execute decentralized command, it's not gonna work right
Now once I'm a state happens or there's failure that's when you step in and take ownership and by the way
You should have taken ownership all along to make sure that the project didn't fail but
These things happen you don't win every single time don't care who you are now
He gave except a couple examples. I'll let you proceed with the question good sir. Okay, he's gonna propose to example
Okay extreme ownership focuses is too much on achieving victory through focus on strategy
in tactics but not assessing whether war was
worth fighting in the first place
For example, maybe prior to prioritizing execute and covering move and institute decentralized command
To become the leading buggy whip manufacturer in the country
Right before Henry Ford releases the model T or maybe you built the Titus sharp is most aggressive sales team in history
But the product they're selling is praying on the weakness of poor or ignorant. Okay, so
This is fairly simple and in the bug extreme ownership
I believe chapter three is called belief
That is you kind of believe in what you're doing and part of believing in what you're doing is understand why you were doing and what you're doing and how it is
Beneficial in the world
Right so for instance, both these examples would fail the test of believing in what you're doing
They would fail the test anyone that was in the transportation industry at the turn of the century and
Would understand that the buggy the horse and buggy was doomed
When they started seeing reliable cars come out on the streets and somebody that truly
Exercise extreme ownership would step up would adapt
Which is another key concept of extreme ownership and lead the transition from
Buggy whips to this new technology of cars so it's okay. It's not you're gonna step up
You got to make changes that's part of ownership is looking and assessing
The other example where you're leading
Extreme ownership you're leading something that is praying on weak people well then
That doesn't pass the test right that doesn't pass the test and believing what you're doing because if I'm like hey
You know what I'm gonna get out there do I'm gonna get out there and pray on extreme people
Yes, you know that's what we do now of course if you have a person that's a sociopath or
Doesn't care about others is only out for themselves and they exercise extreme ownership in order to accomplish an evil mission
Well, yeah, that's gonna be bad because people that people that take ownership of things can make things happen and if they're
Caused as evil then that's going to be bad. It's gonna be a bad situation
so
You know the the thing that's inherent in extreme ownership is a true understanding of the mission and belief of the mission
And the knowledge that you're doing the right things for the right reasons
Which is why these two examples are are actually non issues and
Then he gave another example. What's the example number two? Yeah, number two is
The time and focus commitments required to practice extreme ownership come at too high a cost to your family
We didn't sign up for this for you know didn't sign up for mission and in the end the gratification of having achieved
Your objective won't be worth what you've given up in your personal life perhaps substantial ownership
I don't know what is a better fit for most people
Okay, well, let's just not forget
That extreme ownership is not
Just about business
in any stretch. It's about life
And you have to own the outcome
in life and that
inherently includes balancing between
What you do for business and what you do with your family now? I'll tell you that we hear all the time
About how extreme ownership actually saved
Marriages
Not hurt some but saves them and you know the husband will stop blaming his wife or vice versa and look at themselves and see where they can improve instead of blaming your wife
For what's going wrong? You say oh, maybe it's not cool that I do this
particular thing that I know a noise or right take some ownership of that they take ownership of the relationship and the problems in the relationship and
They fix them instead of making excuses or passing the blame
So extreme ownership is going to help that family
Then if you listen to the the podcast with JP which AP to now on it which is number 46 JP is taking ownership of his marriage
Which and actually were divorced at the time and
Applied the simple laws of combat right simplify cover move and and got his marriage back on track and
So so extreme ownership is not
100% focused on business it's focused on life
And the dichotomy is also there that I talk about all the time that you have to balance all the opposing forces
It's a chapter in the book called the dichotomy of leadership right you got a balance these opposing forces in your world now
One of those opposing forces is balancing the the pull of your family with the pull of your work
and
Yeah, you can go too far in one direction you can go so far in one direction that you lose you you can go so work so hard and do such long hours that you lose your dead dead
Then you lose your family
You can also do the opposite where you don't do enough for at work and you focus so much in your family that you lose your job
Which one of those is a good outcome?
Neither that's why you have to balance neither one of those is a good outcome
Yeah, that's why you have to balance and by the way
It's one of those things to I've seen this happen with you know friends of mine that have gone out sort of a breakdown
Kind of downward spiral in their life. I think this is problematic
People start having trouble with their marriage right and
They quit their job
And they think oh now will be able to spend more time, but now it was a minute or no many money and it turns into a disaster and I always say look man
Think about this your job is what how you provide for your family
So let's have a plan before we move in this direction
Did you got a balance if you if you because if you throw everything
Like I just said if you say okay my job is you know, I'm too stressed out and I'm just gonna leave my job and just focus on my family
Now you've got no income you got a whole new level stresses coming out your because he's gonna put the food on the table
So like one guys
They stop working out after they get married because oh I got to focus on my family my kids, you know
And stuff around but health down you know health down energy down
Yeah, you know you become a low energy father. We don't want that that's bad for everybody that's bad for the whole family
So yeah, that's another thing if you got if you've got your your
wife or your husband is saying hey, you know you're working out all the time
You know, I don't like this say hey, here's the benefits. You know, do you want me to be around for an extended period of time?
You want me to be alive past 60 do you want me to be a healthy?
Do you want me to be able to defend our family should there be some kind of an encounter?
You know, I know I do want to be able to defend this family
So yeah, I got to spend a little extra time on their gun range
Yeah, I got to spend a little extra time on the GT mat. Yes, I'm gonna work out. That's I'm doing that you think I'm doing it for me
Do it for us for us. Yeah, I'm doing it for us now. Of course got a balance out too cuz you can go overboard there, too
Yeah, working out. Yeah, it's working out. Be careful. Like working out is not to be confused with going to the gym
So like there's some people is a huge separation there. Yeah, so yeah guys will like go to the gym
Or even the jutsu mat because this face it there is a big element of social
There, you know that social component and jutsu
What do you mean when you go to jutsu like you there's a lot of paying it out?
You mean talking to like talking to other people yeah, you get friends. You know, of course
So some people will be like hey, I'll go to jutsu mean while new baby whatever
Hey, I'm gonna do jutsu, but then they'll roll for the hour hour and a half and then
3 and a half four hours later they'll come home
They also do jutsu all the here's the benefits. I'm like yeah, you did the jutsu for hour and a half
The other what however long you were cruising with your friends in the lounge drinking outside
Yeah, don't do that don't confuse it is don't have balance or use it. You know, I'll be we'll use it like I got a go, but you know
Yeah, that's good and you know these questions what I liked about him is he's saying hey, you know
Basically put the extreme ownership attitude into the UFC cage and let's see how it does and these problem examples
So I think I think it does all right. We're just get your home gym. You know
Yeah, definitely recommend the home gym
Jockel do you follow stoicism
Did Zen practice lead to your thoughts about detachment and ego?
So I get asked these questions the other day on Twitter and as you know when I'm answering Twitter
I'm doing pretty thirst answers because I'm answering a lot of different questions
One verse short word
so
This one I
Particularly remember that answer someone's a do you follow stoicism and I just wrote back no
You know don't and in a while later I get you know the thread back and the guy come back and said something along the lines of like
You know
I don't know what it is you don't agree with with stoicism. It's very similar to what you believe or something like that. It wasn't being a jerk
You're just like you know, you know what's wrong with you. I don't you practice stoicism and
Here's the deal
And I love to
Come back here and tell people how learned I am
Then how well read I am about the philosophies and the ancient cultures and the Eastern religions
and all matters in the world philosophical
But the fact is I'm not I'm not and actually when I was a kid
And by the way kid for me lasts a long time. I mean kid for me goes pretty recent
You know, I made six months ago. I kind of consider myself a kid. But when I was a kid
the teachings of
Philosophers and of the ancients those
That information was transmitted
by academics right by teachers or by professors professors and to be blunt
And Frank when I was a kid
There was a lot of
People in that realm and the academic realm that didn't exactly command my respect now
They were people that went to college. I wanted to learn from people that went to war
That's what I wanted hmm now the part that I missed
Was that many of the ancients were warriors and their teachings were important and
Through my own arrogance looking at these professors and these teachers
I don't know can you learn anything from that person? I'm gonna go in the military
I'm gonna learn from a gun resargent Marine Corps. That's what I was thinking
But the fact is the reading and the studying and the schooling did not really lead me to any of my
beliefs or values
It was life that did it was it was the things I experienced that brought me to this place where I am right now
not the books that I read
Not the classes that I attended and like I said of course part of this a big part of this was just my own
ignorance and ego me saying what can these professors teach me?
And that's why I footnote right now caveat or
Secondary thought everyone out there when you have the opportunity to learn
It's take full advantage of it and I know now again. I know now
That you can learn from anybody
You can learn from anybody everybody's got something to teach you so open up your mind and
That being said since I was too stupid and arrogant to learn oftentimes to learn from books and teachers
I had to learn from life
And as I look now, yeah, I see similarities between
Again, I'll use the word beliefs, but I think that's a strong word, but I see similarities between what I think and
the other
Philosophical thoughts throughout the ages and I think that's
Parts I think that's actually not even partially. I think that's because there are really are some universal truths
For humanity and for people and I think that if you
Walk the path of life and
You pay attention to what's happening around you and
you're exposed
to
Joy and your exposed to suffering and your exposed to love and to hate and to war and to peace
I think if you have led
Down that path and you have followed down that path
I think that all the paths
But they kind of arrive at some place that's
fairly similar
In the term that they kind of use is this this term of enlightenment and again
I think that's definitely too strong for word for what I'm trying to say
But that's sort of a a broad term that captures it
But I think these paths
They all lead to a similar form of
Enlightenment
And I don't think it really matters what terrain you went through or what specific path you took
I think that we see that the path looks very similar and it says the same things
When you get to the end it says to be disciplined. It says to keep your ego in check
It says to keep things simple and work hard and tell the truth and believe in what you say and what you do and treat other people with respect
And
When you start getting overwhelmed with emotions you got to detach from those and
I think that there's things like those that are just
Universal
Truths and I think you can find them in what the Buddha said
Or what Marcus are really a center what the Bible says or what any number of
Religious or philosophical teachers
I think they're all pretty similar and I think you can learn them from those ancients
Or I think you can find them yourself
And
Unless you're of course two stubborn and arrogant to listen here the lessons of the past but
If you're not
I think you can get there and that's sort of how I arrived at
Again the this the word is too strong, but the way I think I'll put it to that way the way I think
It's
Where I ended up
And I didn't get too much
Direction along the way and now it's really obvious
I mean when you look at and I'm sure we'll do Marcus you're really at some point
You know because his
You know stoic saying are awesome and they totally match and I wish I would have I wish what I would have learned about Marcus
Aralia's and it's off more year and high school I said wow this guy's got it together
I'm gonna listen to him he was a warrior but I didn't do that
Why because the guy that was teaching me I'll say now with this guy doesn't know he's talking about it's got some teacher
Right, yeah, there's a reason they're called teacher so they can teach you but you got to be willing to listen and learn
So
You know I always try and I've talked about this when we talked about the the jockel academy, right having a school
I always talked about tying this thread between all this history in the world so you see that people
So the kids can understand
What it means and where it came from and I think that that's something that I
Never made those connections when I was a kid. I never made those connections in high school, you know
Even I was going to college I went to college. I was pretty old when I went to college for a college student
I think I was 27 right so also mature
Allegedly mature. I wasn't mature
You know, I was trying to do when I went to college get good grades
The teacher it was me against the teacher the the contest was great
I'm gonna beat you. I wasn't saying you know what this guy really has a lot to show me
This guy really got to learn a lot from this. I can apply this in my life. No, I wasn't saying that
I was too stupid. I was too arrogant to say that so what did I do?
Studied hard memorized what they told me to memorize that's what I did. I wasn't I was focused on the grade
Not on the
learning now. I'll tell you
That's not an excuse for oh
I'm not gonna worry about the grade. I'm just gonna learn no wrong answer
I'm saying this specifically for my kids that are probably listening to this and they'll say like well that you know
I'm focused on the learning negative you focus on the learning good. You still get your A
You get you win you still win
So that's
I guess you know again. I'm sorry and I think sometimes people get caught up in like
it's a you ever heard me say
Talk about
When when we got back from I got back from my first deployment to Iraq and
And we actually when I was into you bruiser with life we had a saying it was a joke
It was a wee weebe
Which stood for when I was in Baghdad
Right when I was in Baghdad because a lot of people now everyone had done one deployment to Baghdad and so any time
They were having any kind of a conversation. They'd say well when I was in Baghdad and we go we web
So you get some guy some instructor or some
Calderay from the training from the training attached me that would be like when I was in Baghdad
We did this every time and it also guys we weeb right?
Because it's a way of saying oh look to I this is this is confirmed in the past and therefore it's correct
Right and I was said man you can't say that you can't say we weeb right?
You can't say when I was in Baghdad you can't say this is the way this is I learned what you say
Should be able to stand on its own two feet that's my point so
I think a lot of times people
Say oh well
Mark Seraleus said this or the Buddha says this and therefore it's it's it's correct
They very well might be correct but let's get the argument not to not to use their quotes
Why don't you come up with something to stand on your own two feet yeah again nothing wrong with using the guidance of the ancients
Right there's nothing wrong with that that's brilliant
From all these books the Bible's got all kinds of things in it that are very impactful great
Great
Proverbs to live by but you know what where did they come from and why not figure out how to use them or how to how to make them stand on their own two feet
Where you not just pointing to you know well it says this there it's the book says this Mark Seraleus said that
Buddha said this other thing no
No, let's let's develop our
Not develop our own but let's make sure we test what we're saying we believe what we're saying that's how I ended up where I'm at so
You know kind of a rough path to take some things in life you got to learn on your own
No, yeah, yeah a lot mostly times unfortunately yeah
Unfortunately a lot of things you got to learn only through experience
We weep we weep when I was a bag of just just like rank just like I can't say like echo I'll rank you
Therefore you'll do it this way yeah just like that I also can't say echo I did it this way in the past
Therefore it's the correct way to do it those are equally bad arguments. Yeah
Don't do them yeah
I hear that a lot that when you know especially when when I first got into reading I
Well more so than hear it I kind of think about that where I could be like hey, you know if I come across
Situation where I'm gonna apply some knowledge that I learned and if I'm in a situation where I got to
Come day the the merits of that knowledge, you know
It does feel weird to be like hey the book said it this way and more like you're just this like blind
I mean per like you don't really understand the value of what you learn you just oh it's said to do it you know if you have to
If you have to refer to the source without if I just say echo we need to do this way because the book said this
No, that's not a good answer what you should be saying is that you know I read this and here's what I see to apply and here's what this book says
But this is what I think it you know you can use it maybe to help your your
arguments but don't let your argument rest on this thing
You know yeah, that's my opinion yeah know yourself
I'm gonna go in 100% agree with you and I was gonna say unless that book is about putting together your computer then you just follow the book
But
When you really think about it still it still holds up you should understand the computer and how it works
Yeah, I'm not gonna get into that game
Okay
What do you do on the days when you're just not feeling it?
Those days
Those days when I'm tired or worn out or
Just
Basically sick of the grind what do I do on those days?
I go anyways
I get it done even if I'm just going through the motions I go through the motions
I don't really want to work out I work out
I really don't want to hammer on a project
I hammer on the project
Don't really want to get up and get out of bed
Yeah, I get up and get out of bed
Now
These
Could be signals that you need some time off and those signals might be right
They could be correct but
Don't
Take today off
Today wait until tomorrow
Don't give in to the immediate gratification that is whispering in your ear
Shut that down do not listen to that little voice instead go through the motions
Lift the weights sprint the hill work on the project get out of bed
That as an overall rule I do not like procrastination
You need to get things done
But if you are going to rest that is one thing that you should procrastinate on
That's the one thing I want you to put off until tomorrow and
If when tomorrow comes
You still feel like you need to rest or you need to take a break then okay
Take
But the chances are you won't
You won't need that rest chances are you will realize that the desire to rest will is just weakness
It was just
the desire to take the path of least resistance the downhill path the easy path
And by simply going through the motions
You overcame that path and you stayed on the righteous path the discipline path
You're stayed on the war path
Which is right where you know
That you belong
And I think that's all
I've got for tonight
Echo before we go
Is there any way that people can support this podcast? Well, yes, there is actually
Um
All right, yeah, we'll go over a couple ways the
Supplements
That's more supporting yourself
Ultimately because you do get 10% off any good good supplements which is rare for mind you
But anyway on it is the company it's on it dot com slash jockel. That's how you get 10% off
Alphabrain for your brain
Shroom tech for your performance body performance
Warrior bars for your stomach
Yeah, bro, I was in we're my friends came over from Arizona's past weekend and
I worked out of whatever that we're still cooking so I busted out a warrior bar
And we're cruising and all the kids two two years three years old six years old and then the eight my warrior bars
Hmm
There's a little bit of spice to it did then did they then start getting after it
Yeah, but in the spirit of accuracy they had been getting after it big time even before that but
Anyway the point there is that they do taste good even three year olds
Don't mind a little spice that's how good they taste yeah not to say that you're a three year old if you eat them though
They're good for ain't they're warrior bars
Yeah, but for me gluten free by the they didn't call them three year olds no bars no they didn't call them formula
They didn't call them that it's warrior bars. Yeah, no, they're good though
When I go on trips now like I go to speak with a company or I'm going to work with they you know a lot of times they provide lunch
A lot of times now
There's a warrior bar so
Oh, man, that's advanced. There's there. They're they're fully engaged. Yeah, we're doing what's awesome
And you mentioned us training. Thank you for that by the way
Bring that up again. Uh, that I was gonna take some trueme tech just to be like today's the day
And I didn't
That was
Yeah, you understand yeah, and I also
You know when we got done yesterday I kind of led you in I said hey, you know, man, you know what the years the deal
Because it just for just to put this in context. Yes, they're not a good day for echo on the mess. It was the thing it started good
Okay, in my opinion given Mike my trajectory learning
Wasn't a great thing right for echo on the map. It was a day of of
You know, they say either you win or you look you learn
I learned a lot. Yes, yeah, just look at some so we get done and you know
We're doing a little debrief. We got big Andy there too and I went over to something Andy as like, hey, man
I really feel this good for you and it's due and I sit down next to echo and I said hey, man, you know
I don't know you don't tell you just you know normally when you roll you feel like
You know about this level and then today you felt about
I don't know about maybe 19% worse and of course he didn't have his his rash his his podcast rash guard on
So I
He was actually thinking I was gonna tell them that was some real it
But maybe there are some the drill there. I don't know. No probably
Nonetheless, yeah, so it could be attributed to one of those two things. I didn't take shrimp tack
And I didn't have my rash guard so one of those is then yeah, well, I like what you're doing here
Instead of blaming me yeah
You're taking the blame on yourself. Yeah, what's the thing a really good craftsman blames his tools?
Yeah, I think that's the actual saying
Anyway, back to the true tech
That's a good one for performance. Oh, I'll frame good too anyway on it. I'm slash jockel 10% off support your wallet
Levated by 10% or give it a 10% break
Yeah, there you go
And it supports this podcast, you know, it's like a circle of support like on it supports us we like support on it
We think that
Technically even if on it wasn't like we weren't sponsored by on it
I have true tech I've been taking shrimp tech before that so it's kind of like you know anyway
Circle of support there. Um another good way Amazon Amazon click through you go to the website talk about cast.com
Click through the Amazon link. It's also on the store
Click through before you do your holiday shopping or any shopping
That's a really good way the key there
Is to remember to do it and doesn't cost you anything what do you put a sticky on your computer?
Yeah, um that's a really good way to support
This podcast does a lot
Costs you nothing and provides good support you
And it's really kind of invisible to you other than that little motion
So that sounds like a really good way to support the podcast. It's kind of like every see everyone Jeff be both
Right, that's his name the leader of Amazon bezels Jeff bezels. Yeah, yeah
Hey that guy seems to have enough money
At Amazon.com
That
From a couple shillings at the podcast here seems like a good plan to me. We support that. Yeah, yeah, that's good
Clicking through Amazon is kind of you know when you watch saving private right? Yeah, you know at the end
When the support comes saves everybody yeah, it's not that big of a
I mean we want the support but it's not saving people's lives but it's kind of dope like that. I'm saying you know
It's good. Yeah, click through the website. That's cool for your holiday shopping
Or just some duct tape somebody sent me some Penn State duct tape who's that?
Do the Debbie that was Sarah Sarah
Now everything's covered in Penn State duct tape yeah, you know speaking of which speaking of Sarah Armstrong. Yes
The girls t-shirts ran I didn't announce that before people been you know in the game and and kind of seeing them and
But yeah, okay the girl the girls shirts are in there v-neck their shirts for the women
Four colors
Black I proved gray I proved oh degree
Pink
All right, sorry Brad you got you got what you call it out voted out
Yeah, video you got video
You're literally the only one who didn't want pink
Seriously, I know it's like Europe up. Yes, you know
Anyway, they're good man. I think they came out good. We got some good reviews from from Ali
Ali by the way Ali and Cassie a lot of times when they send
The you know the packing that they send the packages for those of you that don't know that's the crew
Yeah, that to be behind the scenes that that packages up that packages you know and they get after it like they like Ali will be
Like if someone's from I forget where but it was like Dale King was one of them or show right like gocubs or you know
Like if you that's your if you're in Chicago or something should be like gocubs and
Show right in a personal message. Yeah, like yeah, because she's like you kind of feel like you know the person
You know because really when you think about it it's like oh, I know how big they are because they're sure it's like
I know where they live, you know kind of thing. I mean this not like they're gonna stop
I'm like that, but I'm just saying they they kind of they're in stocky, but they'll support your local baseball team
Yeah, maybe none the last little reason ever get up
Even they were like dang these are really good shirts
Okay, we get the message
Good they're pink
Pink summer pink summer o degree
This Bliny Cathedral women shirts money also of course a rash guards
19-ish percent improvement so far how holding up that claim has been holding up UFC fighters confirmed me
Jockel confirming with me when I do have my rash guard and I was
90 percent last effective
Anyway, and they happen to look
Really good according to the feedback I've been getting
So anyway if you go to jockelstore.com you can look at them and look at the girls t-shirts and the other shirts on there if you like them get one support that way
Represent
Also who the easiest of course, what he's there out?
Chili outside. Oh, yeah, it is. You know, it's like a heavier way. It's not the heavy heavy heavy
That's for heavy. Is everything? Yeah, it's not like snow, you know, look too heavy. Well, because someone emailed me
I gotta remember all the people like actually ask these specific questions, but he was like how heavy is it is it?
Oh, well, it was a brand cart cart cart cart cart cart cart. Yeah, is it like I understand a cart heart that that's gonna you know
Provide this and you know, it's for a strong stravenist artic situation. Yeah, yeah, so that's a good example
So I'm like you know, how is it comparatively it's not that?
It's not Arctic conditions. It's like
Like cocaine conditions
Okay, what's that? Monicae how about that? It's monicae a condition
Cokay is a mountain on koai where you go up. It's like it's
Yeah, it's a good one
Anyway, it's like it's almost the heaviest as far as who he's go, but anyway
They're good check to Zad if you like I'm quite support that like I want to know
Keep yourself kind of warm or like it you know as far as when you work out
It's tough or just wearing them
So yeah, there it is
Of course subscribe YouTube I'm putting more videos
But currently I'm putting more put one the other day. I'm put one today
They're like little bite size like bits, you know because sometimes you don't want to listen to the two hours especially on YouTube
You just want to listen how do I like like recover from setbacks at work?
Jocco jocco make nuggets
Exactly right so you can you know you can
Look at them for like shoulders time like three to I don't know eight minutes or something or if you know if you know someone who's like
Hey, you were asking me this question remember
You send them that bowl advice like shareable advice kind of thing
Anyway, that's like what you're doing there. Yeah, so subscribe to YouTube you can support that way
And I do and of course
Oh, you got a problem here's a two and a half hour
It's like when people were like hey, I'm trying to get over the situation at work and then they say hey read this book
I'm like bro, I go to work tomorrow. Yeah. Yeah. I need no now. Yeah, that's exactly so it's kind of the same situation with those YouTube
Like like sides videos or you can just revisit the subject matter
You know, I mean like if you listen to it, let me go read yeah, let me read it
course you're in course exactly so there you go and then yeah, right a review and I it doesn't take you long to cut those things out
Because I think you should just put a massive number of those out. Yeah, just to be on there right yeah a lot of times I'll think of it in terms of like
You know how when you put out the podcast every week. It's like the new ones on let me check it out
So a lot of times I just I'm like dogmatic in that way where I just I think just through habit I think of it that way
So I'm like okay, I'm gonna bite that way you just put one
Conaletted marinade for a little while before you put it, but yeah, I should think about that way
It just needs to be on there think of it this way is everything in it that way think of it this way when you put one out that's
Five minutes and fifty six seconds long five minutes and fifty six late
Later moment later
That someone's waiting for the next one. Yeah, so hook them up. Yeah, take care of some people echo Charles
All right, let's do that. I'm in
Yeah, and boom there you go
Good a couple other things
Jockel white tea if you want to get some of that it's probably probably gonna be the only beverage ever gonna want to drink
I think that there's a time coming in the very near future where when you go to a bar or to a club out at night
I have a good time
I think in the future the only thing that they're gonna be selling in the bar in the club in the restaurant
It's just chocolate tea. There's not gonna be any more beer no more whiskey no more wine
No more poison that tastes like gasoline
I declare that those days are numbered
And I think it's gonna be time people are gonna be wanting to drink something that makes you smarter instead of something that makes you
Dumber something that makes you stronger instead of making you weaker
Something that makes you healthier instead of making you sicker
So that's why I think people are gonna be on it Amazon you can get some of that
While you're also on Amazon if you like this podcast or what we talked about
You can get a book and this is sometimes people
Find the podcast and they haven't read the book extreme ownership by me and my brother, Dave Babin that's pretty normal right
And sometimes the opposite yeah people got the book and then they got then they found the podcast
So either way, but I'm just confirming if you're a person that listens to the podcast the book is also there
You can grab that from Amazon and
Also if you kind of want to
Keep these conversations going with echo Charles and myself you can find us
We will be
on the interwebs
all of the interwebs
On Twitter Instagram and of course we even on that is book
That goes at echo Charles and I am at
Jocco Willink and
Finally
Thanks everybody for listening if you're in uniform. Thank you for serving
Thanks for taking the fight to the enemy
Thanks for stopping criminals. Thanks for putting out fires
Thanks to
Thanks to all of you in uniform in service
And the rest of you troopers out there fighting your own fight
Make it a good fight
Make it the kind of fight that winter lose you walk off the field of battle knowing
You gave it everything you could give and you had nothing left
And that fight
That fight that I'm talking about is life
And while I was talking about going through the motion some times when you just haven't got the intrinsic drive to go full on at a task
Let me tell you what when it comes to life don't just go through the motions
Leave
Live fight the good fight
Live
Unoutstanding life
Don't just go through life. Don't just get through it
Instead
Get after it
So until next time this is echo and jockel
Out